---
title: Believe
layout: post
---

Why did people believe? Sam was utterly stupefied. He required an explanation. An explanation as to why people dedicated time, money, and faith to a ‘deity’ who hadn’t shown a hint of compassion for the poor and the troubled. Who hadn’t helped them on rainy days, hadn’t lent them a hand when they needed it most, or ever. Whose existence was merely hypothetical, His power, therefore, purely circumstantial. And why was it always a He? Was our society really so misogynistic that they assigned the male gender to the single most powerful being in…

Where did He reside? Was He a being, even?

These were the things Sam worried himself over as he walked home from ball-practice. He was 12 years old. Tall for his age, with-no, he would not think about these things. His physical appearance, his daily activities and troubles, seem inconsequential. They have been seeming, more and more so recently. What he, in front of Him? So many questions. One of those kept nudging his mind. Why did people believe?

He wondered if He cared. If He looked over us, as had been preached to him time and again. He would protect us. Unless, of course, you didn’t believe. Then He would destroy. The only conclusion he could draw from this was that He was hypocritical, along with his followers. How could they consider him pristine, pure and justified, if they only did so out of fear? Maybe they forgot. They forgot all the times parents, peers and preachers told them to pray. Pray, if you want to succeed in your task. Pray, if you want to get something you want. Pray, or perish.

But so many don’t forget. Information is the single greatest commodity in the world. It’s not surprising, then, that it had been forged and twisted and sold. Information had been altered, history had been altered. The Truth had been altered.

Sam was beginning to lose grasp of his own thought process. It was almost as if his thoughts had come from somewhere else, subtly settling themselves in his consciousness. But we know. We know what we think. We know which thought is alien. But He didn’t want to let go. He wanted to hold on to those thoughts, he wanted to cherish them. Much like a new book, a new thought was attractive. A new thought promised potential for unexplored ideas. But much like a new book, a new thought looked better from afar. We don’t really want to read a book which looks good. We would just ruin it. He would just ruin it..

Thud. He hadn’t seen him coming.

Seeing his belongings scattered everywhere, the middle-aged man scrambled to pick them up. He looked up at Sam with distaste. Yet he was not angry, no. He was not furious, like one would be to a child. He looked ambivalent. He looked like he didn’t know what to feel. That’s when Sam realised he didn’t even register what he had been picking up. He didn’t register the fact that he was picking something up. He forced himself out of his thoughts, back into the real world. But the man had left. Gathered his things and went on with his life.

He was helping the man pick up his belongings. His belongings..

He slipped back. He thought. He wanted to believe. He did. He wouldn’t admit to anyone, but the prospect of believing everything is going to be okay would be tantalising to anyone. Was that why people believed? But that was stupid. That wasn’t faith, that was simply wishful thinking. He thought back to the man he bumped into. He was wearing a three-piece suit with a red tie. Very common among the people who worked at his father’s firm. What did his father do, exactly? He had never got a straight answer. 

Inconsequential. Everything was inconsequential. How did it matter? How did we matter? How did He matter?

He wondered why people found it so hard to view others as equal. He had never had a problem with it. He had learned not to judge people based on their appearance, quirks or first impressions. Everyone else was equal. Everyone was the same. But he was not alone. Others, they had to explain structure, creation. So if no human was unequal, there must be something greater than human. Something supernatural.

But he was alone in this: he did not believe.

Everyone around him believed. Everyone.

Then it hit him. The only logical explanation to all this. The only way the world makes sense. The only way everything about him and his life is explained. He was He. He was God.

Satisfied, He walked home singing to himself. It was odd, the song. He recognised it as a verse from a prayer. How quaint. He had always loved irony.
