---
layout: post
title: Depart
---

Depth. That’s all he thought about nowadays. Depth always complicated things. Think of all the tragedies that could have been avoided by simplicity. Detail confuses, detail is misinterpreted and misinterpretations instigate. Communication is the Achilles heel of human civilisation just because we can’t keep it simple.

Abstract thoughts often caught him by surprise, despite the fact that they were his own. He just couldn’t stop his train of thought once it started. Yet he could not complain, as his mind’s pathways usually led him to novel and interesting places. He could sit and think for ages at a stretch, and this session was particularly interesting.

It started, as is usually does, with a heartbreak. She left. There can never be any more to say about it, as all has been said before. He would like to think she was his past, but she was his present and quite possibly his future. The question has always been, is he Hers?

But thinking like that led him nowhere. What was more interesting to him at the moment, was his emotions. He had always felt them the same way, an entity travelling inside his torso. Joy would always shoot up from his navel right up to his chest. Sorrow would start at his heart, and slowly work its way down to his gut, meandering along and tracing a convoluted path. Anger would start in his chest and brood there: still, unmoving. Until suddenly it would turn into Rage and burst open.

Simple emotions were comfortable. They were easy to create a narrative around. If he was having a bad day, he could just construct the drama and fill the void in his heart with the heroic notion of being at odds with the whole world. If he was feeling happy, the world ceased to be real and transformed into his own kind of paradise. When he was angry, the people and systems around him suddenly seemed so stupid and arbitrary. 

Alas, it had all changed after the Event. His emotions no longer had distinct identities or paths. Instead, the entities he had gotten used to seemed to exist simultaneously, making connections among themselves and forming an intricate web. It was impossible for him to define his emotional state at any point in time. It was a horrible feeling. Paradoxically, he had never felt lonelier than when his own emotions refused to show themselves to him.

Mess, everything was a mess. He had gone too deep.

___

He threw himself into work. He was quite good at it, he realised. “Your work ethics are amazing for someone your age!” people remarked. He didn’t seem to care. He worked because the alternative was too scary: if idle, he knew where his mind would wander. Nevertheless, he excelled in his studies and projects and anything for which anyone dared make him responsible. Slowly, though, a feeling of purposelessness crept into his psyche. He felt like he was working towards nothing at all; any field he picked up seemed inconsequential no matter how good the prospects or how great his aptitude.

So he searched. He searched for any meaning the world could possibly give him until he realised that a relationship would give him the satisfaction like no other. Hence he set out to court a girl he liked. He was quite good at this too, apparently. Approaching her with a low self-esteem but hiding it, one day he asked her about the possibility of exploring a romantic angle between them. To his complete and utter surprise, she said yes.

The intricate web collapsed. He now felt nothing.

___

It wasn’t that he didn’t like her. The problem was that she could never substitute *Her*. It ended soon and it ended quite nonchalantly. He decided that he was going to find meaning in his work: after all, that was truly lasting. His work and his reputation could not leave him even after he died.

But the first goal he had to work hard towards was letting go of Her, or perhaps the idea of Her. Which one it was that tortured him so, he could no longer know. And while he toiled away at his psyche, experimenting with different ways of controlling his thoughts, no matter what he tried, he fell prey to Ironic process theory: “whereby deliberate attempts to suppress certain thoughts make them more likely to surface.” 

___

He didn’t realise. It had been months. He hadn’t *not* thought of her this long before. Perhaps he really was over Her. Perhaps his work was meaningful enough, or perhaps the synapses of Her memory had simply decayed. Whatever it was, he would take it. He now understood that Forgetting wasn't a process he could put himself through, Forgetting was simply the passage of time. Happily Ever After was certainly quite far off, but Now was here, replacing the Past. Now possibilities loomed in the horizon.

